# Motivation to learn ARM Cortex-M Processors
- It is an embedded processor used in most of the MCUs and is used in wide range of Embedded Applications.
  - Battery powered devices like health monitoring and fitness tracking applications, Medical Meters, etc.
  - Automotive Applications
  - IOT Applications
  - Mobile and Home Appliances
  - Home/Building Automation
  - Toys and Consumer products
  - PC and Mobile Accessories
  - Test and Measurement Devices

- E.g. fitbit flex
  - Microcontrollers: STM32L151C6 by STMicroelectronics
  - Processor: ARM Cortex M3
  - Application Type: Ultra Low Power.

- E.g. TomTom Spark 3 GPS Multisport Fitness Watch
  - Microcontroller: SAMSx (Atmel SMART ARM Cortex M7 Microcontrollers)
  - Processor: ARM Cortex M7
  - Application Type: Ultra Low Power.

- Most of the famous MCU manufacturers produce microcontrollers based on ARM Cortex M processors.
  - TI (Low power battery based applications)
  - STMicro (High, Medium, and Low performance MCUs)
  - Toshiba (Measuring Equipment's & Metering)
  - NxP
  - Microchip
  - Broadcom(Wireless Connectivity, IoT)
  - ... and many more

## Why ARM Cortex-M Processor is popular?
- Most of the manufacturers prefer to use ARM Cortex M processors in their design because of the minimal cost, minimal power and silicon area.

- It is a `32 bit` processor which will surely boost the computational performance of an application and it comes with almost same the price of `8 bit` or `16 bit` traditional processor.

- The Cortex M3/M4's MCUs can be used in ultra low power to high performance based applications.

- Processor is customizable to include Floating point unit, DSP unit, MPU, etc.

- It has a very powerful and easy to use interrupt controller which supports 240 external interrupts.

- It is RTOS friendly, which means it provides some exceptions, processor operational modes and access level configurations which helps to develop secured RTOS related applications.

- Its instruction set is rich and memory efficient. It uses Thumb Instruction set which is collection of 16 bit as well as 32 bit instructions.

- Cortex M processor cannot execute the ARM instruction set instructions. It uses Thumb instruction set which gives the same 32 bit ARM instruction performance but in 16 bit format.

- ARM Provides lots of documentations to learn more about this processor, in the technical refernce manual.

## Major Competitors:
1. AVR based MCUs(8/16/32 bit) by Microchip(Atmel)
   - Most of the Arduino boards use MCUs which are based on AVR Processor Core of 8bit/ 16bit/ 32bit architecture.

2. MSP 430 Microcontrollers (16 bit) by TI.







